JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: As
the CIA concludes
Russia acted to sway the U.S.
election in
Donald Trump's favor, we talk
with one of
the bipartisan group of senators
calling for
an investigation.
Then: the future of Obamacare --
Health and
Human Services Secretary
®MDNM /MD-BO /Sylvia
Burwell on the fate of the
president's signature
law under a Trump
administration.
SYLVIA MATHEWS BURWELL, U.S.
Health and Human
Services Secretary: It's like a
game of Jenga,
where you have the puzzle
pieces, and if you
pull one out, the thing will
topple.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the Music
City feels the
pressure -- how Nashville's
booming housing
market is threatening its
historic culture.
AUBREY PRESTON,
Developer/Philanthropist:
I believe in Music City.
It would be the equivalent of,
in Egypt, them
allowing one of their three
pyramids or something
to be torn down.
It's just an impossibility that
this building
would be torn down.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: There's a split
tonight between
Donald Trump and his own
Republican Party,
at issue, serious allegations
that the Russians
were playing spy games during
the presidential
campaign.
John Yang begins our coverage.
JOHN YANG: Top congressional
Republicans put
themselves at odds with
president-elect Trump
today, calling for
investigations into possible
Russian attempts to influence
the election.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), Majority
Leader: Obviously,
any foreign breach of
cyber-security measures
are disturbing, and I strongly
condemn any
such efforts.
Well, let me just speak for
myself.
The Russians are not our
friends.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: I think
it's just another excuse.
JOHN YANG: On Sunday, Mr. Trump
dismissed
the CIA's conclusion that the
Russians were
trying to help him win as
ridiculous.
He pointed to apparent
disagreements between
the spy agency and the FBI.
DONALD TRUMP: I have great
respect for them.
But if you read the stories, the
various stories,
they're disputing.
And certain groups don't
necessarily agree.
Personally, it could be Russia.
It -- I don't really think it
is.
But who knows?
I don't know either.
They don't know and I don't
know.
JOHN YANG: This morning, he
tweeted that:
"If the election results were
the opposite
and we tried to play the
Russia/CIA card,
it would be called conspiracy
theory."
Russia is also an issue with a
potential secretary
of state in the Trump
administration, ExxonMobil
CEO Rex Tillerson.
He's done a lot of business
there and has
close ties to President Vladimir
Putin.
That's a reason for concern, say
some Senate
Republicans, including John
McCain.
SEN.
JOHN MCCAIN (R), Arizona: Maybe
those ties
are strictly commercial and got
to do with
his business in the oil
business.
Fine.
But we will give him a fair
hearing.
But is it a matter of concern?
Certainly, it should be a matter
of concern.
JOHN YANG: Meanwhile, the
president-elect's
challenge to the longstanding
U.S. one-China
policy brought a stern warning
from the Chinese
Foreign Ministry.
GENG SHUANG, Chinese Foreign
Ministry Spokesperson
(through translator): I want to
stress that
the Taiwan issue involves
China's sovereignty
and territorial integrity.
If such a foundation is
disrupted and undermined,
the sound and steady growth of
our relations
would be impossible.
JOHN YANG: Today, Mr. Trump
officially named
his choice for secretary of
homeland security,
retired Marine Four-Star General
John Kelly,
a veteran of four decades in the
Corps.
Kelly most recently headed U.S.
Southern Command,
overseeing military operations
in Central
and South America.
In that role, he also worked
with Homeland
Security to stop the smuggling
of immigrants.
He's the third general Mr. Trump
has picked
for a major post, but he is also
a Gold Star
parent.
His son, a Marine 1st
lieutenant, was killed
in Afghanistan in 2010.
The president-elect also named
Goldman Sachs
president Gary Cohn to head the
White House
National Economic Council.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And two
developments in election
recounts today.
A federal judge refused to order
one in Pennsylvania,
as Green Party candidate Jill
Stein wanted.
And a new tally ended in
Wisconsin, with little
change.
Donald Trump won both states.
Among those voicing concern
about Russia's
attempts to influence the
presidential election,
a bipartisan group of senators
who called
for an investigation into the
cyber-attacks
that they say should alarm every
American.
Jack Reed, the ranking member of
the Senate
Armed Services Committee is one
of those senators,
and he says he has no reason to
doubt the
CIA's conclusions.
SEN.
JACK REED (D), Rhode Island:
They definitely
intervened in the election.
They collected information
against both Democrats
and Republicans, and they seemed
to only have
released information with
respect to the Democratic
candidate.
The motivation, that is
something that we're
going to continue to probe.
But it seems -- it seems that
they were interested
in disrupting the Democratic
campaign as much
as they could.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You don't have
any question
about that conclusion?
Because the FBI, as you know,
it's reported
that they are holding back on
ascribing a
motive here.
SEN.
JACK REED: Well, there is a
difference between
a motive and what happened on
the ground,
if you will.
What seems to be clear is that
they had been
able to enter into the computer
systems of
both the Republicans and the
Democrats, and
that they through proxies
disseminated information
about the Democratic candidate,
didn't in
any significant way do so with
the Republicans.
Could you question motivations,
but it seems
clear that they had a goal and
objective to
provide information that would
be detrimental
to the Democratic candidate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what other
explanation
could there be other than
wanting to help
Donald Trump?
SEN.
JACK REED: It -- the only other
plausible
explanation would be just so to
sow general
confusion.
But at some point, they clearly
seem to suggest
a preference in terms of who
they were going
to attack or provide detrimental
information
about.
And that was the Democratic
candidate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What does this
represent to
you, Senator Reed, as somebody
who has looked
at intelligence for as long as
you have?
SEN.
JACK REED: Well, it demonstrates
the practice
that the Russians have of
surreptitiously
using cyber and other techniques
to involve
themselves in elections, to
distort elections.
It happened overseas.
And now, unfortunately, it has
happened dramatically
in the United States.
And so we have to be aware of
this.
That is why Senator McCain and I
are working
to set up a subcommittee to look
at this issue,
but longer term to look at the
cyber-capabilities
of Russia in many different
dimensions.
But the first issue is trying to
get all the
facts that we can out about
their participation
in this election cycle, because
we have to
be able to show the American
public that in
two years or at any time in the
future, our
elections are not determined by
surreptitious
activity of foreign intelligence
services;
they're determined by the
voters.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, I'm sure,
as you know,
the president-elect, Donald
Trump, is saying
he doesn't believe that the
Russians did this.
He says he's not at all sure
they did the
hacking.
He says it could have been a man
sitting on
a bed somewhere.
How do you -- what do you say to
his reaction
to all this?
SEN.
JACK REED: Well, it seems quite
obvious that
this was done by the Russians.
Our intelligence services have
indicated it.
They have done so very
carefully.
To disregard the obvious is not
a good trait
in a leader in any situation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: To disregard the
obvious?
SEN.
JACK REED: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, do you want
to elaborate
on that?
SEN.
JACK REED: Well, it seems that
the facts are
overwhelming that there is the
involvement
of the Russians in the election,
the involvement
not only in terms of penetrating
Democratic
operatives and organizations,
but also, as
the intelligence community
concluded also,
the Republican National
Committee.
So, they were involved.
And that seems to be not an
issue of contention.
And to simply deny that is to
deny what to
me appears increasingly to be
obvious, a fact.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator, what
would be different
between the investigation that
you and some
Republican senators are calling
for and the
investigation that President
Obama has called
for inside the administration to
be done by
the inauguration?
SEN.
JACK REED: Well, the president
is able to
use the intelligence agencies
and other agencies
to vet the information, to
protect sources
and methods, to come up with all
that could
released to the public.
Our investigation, I hope, will
build off
of that.
I hope the document the
president us is available,
so we have a common base of
facts and knowledge.
And from there, we can ask other
questions
that I think are relevant going
forward: What
can we do to prevent this in the
future?
I think also it raises again the
issue that
has been so contentious over the
last several
months about the president-elect
being much
more open and candid in his
financial dealings,
so that there is absolutely no
question of
any type of bias towards any
institution or
individual or country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, two other
questions.
One is, what should the U.S. do
if this is
proven that the Russians did
this hacking
and if they did it for the
reason that it
appears that they did?
SEN.
JACK REED: Well, first, I think
forewarned
is forearmed, where the American
people will
be aware of the tactics, the
techniques and
the motivations, if we can
determine them
conclusively of the Russians.
That will be useful.
Then, second, there is the
ability to take
action against them.
Right now, we have sanctions in
place because
of their assault on the Crimea,
because of
their destabilizing activities
in the Crimea.
If this raises that level, we
could certainly
consider something like that.
I think also in terms of
international criticism,
this is something they have done
in the past
in other countries.
If this is their method of
operation, we have
to be able to, I think, enlist
the aid and
the support of other countries,
our European
allies and across the globe.
That would be something that
will would send
a strong message that this will
not be tolerated
by the United States, nor by
other countries.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Final question,
Senator Reed.
And that is, what is your
reaction to president-elect
saying in an interview yesterday
that he isn't
taking all the intelligence
briefings that
he has been offered because --
quote -- "I'm,
like, a smart person.
I don't have to be told the same
thing in
the same words every single day
for the next
eight years"?
SEN.
JACK REED: I think that is not a
sensible
way to approach the issues that
the president
has to deal with.
Things change almost
instantaneously.
Situation arise.
Context is important.
It's also critically important
that you are
so involved in the intelligence
cycle as the
president that you are able to
be able to
judge adequately when someone
presents a viewpoint
to you.
A periodic sort of quick study,
if you will,
is not going to work.
It takes that constant exposure.
And I think it's not a good
leadership for
-- particularly for a president,
to simply
say, I know it all, I will just
take a little
refresher course once in a
while.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator Jack
Reed, the ranking
Democrat on the Armed Services
Committee,
thank you very much for talking
with us.
SEN.
JACK REED: Thanks, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we will
debate Russia's
actions with a former director
of the CIA
and former ambassador to Russia
in the Obama
administration after the news
summary.
In the day's other news: Syrian
rebels all
but collapsed in the city of
Aleppo, and the
army of President Bashar
al-Assad appeared
on the verge of recapturing the
city.
By day's end, the military said
it now controls
99 percent of Eastern Aleppo,
once a rebel
stronghold.
Nonstop bombing overnight
reduced more buildings
to rubble, and heavy shelling
continued throughout
the day.
The rebels were left with a tiny
enclave.
In Turkey, police roundups were
in full swing
today across Turkey after twin
bombings killed
44 people in Istanbul on
Saturday.
Officials detained 235 people
who police said
were linked to the outlawed
Kurdish separatist
party.
Meanwhile, scores of protesters
marched in
Istanbul to denounce the
bombings, and President
Recep Tayyip Erdogan visited the
soccer stadium
where the attack took place.
The United Nations has a new
secretary-general.
The former prime minister of
Portugal, Antonio
Guterres, was sworn in today.
Guterres has also served as U.N.
high commissioner
of refugees, and he vowed today
to streamline
operations to meet humanitarian
needs.
ANTONIO GUTERRES, United Nations
Secretary-General:
It benefits no one if it takes
nine months
to deploy a staff member to the
field.
The United Nations needs to be
nimble, efficient
and effective.
It must focus more on delivery
and less on
process, more on people and less
on bureaucracy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Guterres will
officially take
office January 1.
He succeeds Ban Ki-Moon, who
served 10 years
as secretary-general.
Authorities in Britain and
Greece announced
today that they have broken up a
network that
moved hundreds of migrants into
Europe.
The gang supplied lost or stolen
passports
and travel documents.
Meanwhile, rescuers pulled
nearly 1,200 people
from the Mediterranean
yesterday.
More than 4,700 have died trying
to make the
crossing this year.
Back in this country, an Arctic
front pushed
into the Northeast and New
England after blowing
across the Great Lakes and Upper
Midwest.
The storm made morning commutes
treacherous
from Pennsylvania on up to
Maine, where two
people died.
Meanwhile, parts of Michigan got
more than
10 inches of snow, forcing
hundreds of schools
to close.
ANDY WILLIAMS, Detroit Resident:
This is a
bad snow.
It's real wet.
It came down real soft.
It came down.
But over the night, it got warm,
and so now
it's a heavy snow.
It's hard to clear off.
Not too bad with this, but with
a snowblower
and stuff, it's pretty tough.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Later this week,
the system
is expected to send temperatures
15 to 30
degrees below normal in the
Midwest and the
Eastern U.S.
Former U.S. Representative Chaka
Fattah was
sentenced to 10 years in prison
today in a
racketeering scheme.
The Pennsylvania Democrat had
been convicted
of taking an illegal $1 million
loan in a
failed bid for mayor of
Philadelphia.
He also used charity funds to
pay down his
son's college loans.
Fattah served 20 years in
Congress before
being ousted.
And Wall Street mostly
retreated, while the
Dow Jones industrial average
maintained -- or
managed another new record.
The Dow gained 39 points to
close at 19796.
But the Nasdaq fell nearly 32
points, and
the S&P 500 slipped two.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
more on Donald
Trump's strained relationship
with the intelligence
community; Health Services
®MDNM /MD-BO /Sylvia
Burwell discusses the future of
Obamacare;
preserving the music studio that
gave us Willie
Nelson and Dolly Parton; and
much more.
preserving the music studio that
gave us Willie
Nelson and Dolly Parton; and
much more.
We dig deeper now into the
debate over Russian
hacking and the CIA's conclusion
the goal
was to sway the U.S. election in
Donald Trump's
favor.
Hari Sreenivasan has that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And we're
joined by two
men with extensive experience
with intelligence
and diplomacy.
James Woolsey was CIA director
during the
Clinton administration.
He's now with Booz Allen, one of
the largest
defense and intelligence
contractors.
He also serves as a senior
adviser to president-elect
Trump on issues of national
security and intelligence.
And Michael McFaul was U.S.
ambassador to
Russia during the Obama
administration.
He's now a professor of
political science
at Stanford University.
Mike McFaul, let me start with
you first.
Your reaction to the news that
Russia may
have played an active role in
helping president-elect
Trump?
MICHAEL MCFAUL, Former U.S.
Ambassador to
Russia: Well, for some of us,
it's not news.
Some of us have been talking and
writing about
this for many months now,
especially after
the hacking of the DNC computers
and the data
dump from WikiLeaks.
I think the two pieces of news
that are new
is that the intelligence
community is now
claiming that they have evidence
to show that
the Russians gave it to
WikiLeaks.
That was uncertain.
Now we know that.
And the second piece is about
the Republican
-- the hacking into the
Republican side.
They now have evidence to show
that.
And what it all means to me, to
be clear,
my bottom line is, we need an
independent,
bipartisan commission to
investigate this.
It's not enough for the Obama
administration
to do their review.
And, frankly, it's not enough to
have hearings
on it at the U.S. Congress.
This is way too big to be
handled in those
places.
We need to know the facts.
And, here, I agree with
president-elect Trump
in the piece you played with
him.
He said several times, we don't
know.
Well, as an academic, I want to
know the facts.
And I think the only way you're
going to get
it is if you set up that
commission.
HARI SREENIVASAN: James Woolsey,
do you agree;
is that the right course?
JAMES WOOLSEY, Former CIA
Director: I don't
see anything wrong with a
well-assembled commission
going into an important issue.
I think what needs to be focused
on here,
though, from the beginning is
that we have
got a couple of different things
going on.
And conflating them causes a lot
of confusion.
One is what the Soviets and then
now the Russians
call disinformation,
dezinformatsiya, otherwise
known as lying.
And they propagate
disinformation throughout
the world on all sorts of
subjects.
But they particularly focus on
organizations
and groups that embody values
that they find
abhorrent, such as the Catholic
Church and
Judaism.
They are apparently moving into
disseminating
disinformation about Western
political parties.
It's not any different in
principle from what
they have been doing for
decades.
I think that's one set of things
that's going
on.
Another set of things that
conceivably could
go on is hacking into the
records of the voting
in order to change those votes.
I don't know that there is any
indication
that we have that this latter is
taking place,
counting people who are dead as
voters and
the sort of things that you read
about in
the American system.
So, I think, insofar as someone
says that
the Russians were not
participating in anything
may not be correct, because they
may have
been participating in
disseminating disinformation,
but not participating in what
most of us think
of as voting fraud, namely,
counting people
who vote who are dead and so
forth.
HARI SREENIVASAN: James Woolsey,
I hear some
hesitation on your part.
Do you doubt the credibility of
your former
agency in coming to this
conclusion?
JAMES WOOLSEY: No, I think
they're conflating
-- they may well be conflating
the issues
as well.
One really needs to separate
these out and
talk about them separately.
I don't know what the CIA would
decide.
I haven't read anything they
have written
in years on something like
disinformation.
But I'm sure they are up to
speed on that.
And if one steals some portion
of software
-- or, rather, of material that
has a particular
cant on it hostile to the United
States or
one of its political parties and
then disseminates
that, I guess you could say that
that was
trying to work the election or
change it in
some way through persuading
people with lies.
But that's not what most people
mean by this.
What most people mean is
fiddling with the
outcome, having, for example, no
paper trail.
So, a recount just based on
fingers touching
screens can be extremely
misleading.
About a quarter of our voting
machines in
the United States, very
stupidly, don't have
paper trails.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Mike McFaul,
James Woolsey
is drawing this distinction here
on two different
kinds of possible interference.
Is that too generous?
MICHAEL MCFAUL: No, I think
those are good
categories.
I think both of those categories
need to be
investigated.
I have personal experience with
that first
category.
I had lots of disinformation
published about
me when I was ambassador.
But I want to be clear.
There is a third category that
Jim was leaving
out, which is stealing data from
the Democratic
National Committee and from John
Podesta,
the chairman of the Hillary
Clinton campaign,
and then disseminating that
information through
WikiLeaks -- by the way, I want
to underscore,
WikiLeaks is a foreign
organization as well
-- and that then having an
impact on the campaign.
Most certainly, the people that
worked in
the Clinton campaign think that
the WikiLeaks
data dump was a devastating
impact on their
electoral candidate's prospect
to become president
of the United States.
If that was provided by Russia
-- and that
is what we learned over the
weekend -- that
is something we need to
investigate, know
the facts, as president-elect
Trump said,
and then think about what
measures can be
taken so that our election in
2020 is free
and fair.
JAMES WOOLSEY: I agree with Mike
on getting
it clear with what is right.
I think that's important.
But, Sanjay, the head of the
WikiLeaks operation
says it wasn't the Russians that
gave him
the material, so there's all
sorts of things
going on here.
HARI SREENIVASAN: James
Woolsey...
MICHAEL MCFAUL: And the CIA over
the weekend
said it was.
We need to know the facts.
HARI SREENIVASAN: James Woolsey,
you used
to run the CIA, and you are also
advising
president-elect Trump.
Have you given them any
guidance, the transition
team or the president-elect's
inner circle,
on doing anything other than
debasing the
credibility of the entire
intelligence organization
and saying, you know what, these
are the same
people that gave us that weapons
of mass destruction
slam dunk that wasn't?
JAMES WOOLSEY: Well, I have not
talked to
anyone in the campaign in the
last couple
of days, so I haven't talked to
anybody about
this issue.
It has just very recently
arisen.
My old agency was, of course,
taken very heavily
to task for the weapons of mass
destruction
issue.
The thing that I think is
interesting is that
two of the three weapons of mass
destruction,
biological and chemical, were in
the hands
of Saddam the whole time.
It was the third kind that
everybody was particularly
worried about, nuclear, that was
lied about
and so forth.
But two-thirds of the types of
weapons of
mass destruction were, in fact,
in Iraq.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Mike McFaul,
are you concerned
about the potential shadow that
hangs over
the information that none of us
have seen,
meaning, it is not just the
Podesta e-mails?
It's the e-mails that haven't
been released,
whether it's from the RNC or
somewhere else,
that perhaps that could be used
as leverage
in the future?
MICHAEL MCFAUL: Yes, of course.
The Russians are very good,
they're one of
the best in the world, at
gathering intelligence.
They do it not just through
hacking, by the
way, but all kinds of different
ways.
And we should look at what --
try to look
at what we have.
By the way, I don't think we
will ever know
completely what they have.
Any person who ever travels to
Russia or lives
in Russia, like I have, knows
that they are
monitored 24/7 in that country.
And we should just try to dig
down to the
facts.
And I want to be clear.
You know, it doesn't mean that
the Russians
made Trump president.
I think many people conflate
that too, that
they say because they tried to
influence the
election, they then jump to the
conclusion
that he is only president
because of the Russians.
I don't want to connect those
dots at all
until I know the facts.
But even if they didn't produce
this outcome,
right, the fact that they tried,
that they
did steal this data, that they
tried to influence
the elections, that's something
we need to
investigate.
And, again, it won't happen in a
partisan
context.
It won't happen if the White
House is the
only one responsible.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Well, we will
have you back
when we have more data to work
with.
Mike McFaul, James Woolsey,
thank you both.
JAMES WOOLSEY: Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now: the future
of Obamacare
and the many questions about
what will happen
to those covered by it now.
With less than six weeks left
until Donald
Trump is sworn in as the 45th
president of
the United States, one of his
most common
campaign pledges remains
constant: ending
it.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: First,
we're going to repeal and
replace the disaster
known as Obamacare.
We will and must repeal and
replace Obamacare.
We are going to repeal and
replace Obamacare
so quickly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The
president-elect says the
Affordable Care Act, more
commonly known as
Obamacare, will be replaced with
more market-driven
alternatives.
REP.
TOM PRICE (R), Georgia: This law
violates
the principles that every
American holds dear
when it comes to health care.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He's tapped one
of the law's
fiercest critics, Congressman
Tom Price of
Georgia, to oversee those
efforts as chief
of the department of Health and
Human Services.
The law, signed in 2010, has
experienced big
turbulence in recent months,
including double-digit
rate increases in many states,
and some insurers
abandoning marketplaces.
But unwinding the law may be far
more difficult
than the campaign rhetoric
suggests.
It's why more than 20 million
Americans now
have insurance, including 11
million covered
through an expansion of
Medicaid.
While some parts of the law are
unpopular,
such as the individual mandate
and costs for
better benefits, one piece that
Mr. Trump
has promised to keep is very
popular.
Insurers are barred from
discriminating against
people with preexisting
conditions.
Yet, how to guarantee that while
repealing
the law is an open question.
Republicans are divided over a
time frame
for replacing it.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell spoke
to that today.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY), Majority
Leader: We
will move right after the 1st of
the year
on an Obamacare replacement
resolution.
And then will work expeditiously
to come up
with a better proposal than
current law.
Doing nothing is not an option,
because you
have seen the headlines all
across America
all last year about the status
quo.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Health care
providers and insurers
have warned of potential chaos.
Last week, two major hospital
groups warned,
repealing the law without a
suitable replacement
would lead to -- quote -- "an
unprecedented
public health crisis."
NARRATOR: Protect the great
moments in your
life with an affordable health
plan through
Healthcare.gov.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, open
enrollment
season for the new year
continues.
Health and Human Services
Secretary®MDNM /MD-BO /
Sylvia Burwell has been
traveling the country
encouraging people to sign up
before enrollment
is finished January 31.
I sat down with her at HHS
headquarters in
Washington earlier today.
Secretary Sylvia Burwell, thank
you for talking
with us.
SYLVIA MATHEWS BURWELL, U.S.
Health and Human
Services Secretary: Thank you so
much for
having me today.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So,
president-elect Trump,
congressional Republicans are
making it very
clear that they plan to repeal
and replace
the Affordable Care Act.
They don't make any bones about
it.
What do you think the
consequences will be?
®MDNM /MD-BO /SYLVIA MATHEWS
BURWELL: The
consequences are great, and
they're great
for all Americans, not just
those that are
the 20 million who have received
insurance.
Certainly, that could all go
away, those who
were uninsured and now insured.
That's 20 million people.
We have the lowest rate of
uninsured in our
nation in history.
Those folks would lose their
coverage.
But I think most people don't
realize that
there are many other benefits
for those who
get insurance through their
employer, things
like children under your plan
until 26, things
like preexisting conditions,
things like preventative
coverage without any additional
co-pays.
And those are some, just a few
of the many
things that would go away in a
repeal.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Mr. Trump
has said, among
other things, that he would like
to keep the
provision that allows children,
adult children
up to age 26 to be covered under
their parents'
plan.
He has also said he doesn't want
anything
to change with regard to
preexisting conditions.
Is it possible to do that and
dismantle the
rest of it and still take care
of people?
®MDNM /MD-BO /SYLVIA MATHEWS
BURWELL: You
know, that's the thing, is, it's
like a game
of Jenga, where you have the
puzzle pieces,
and, if you pull one out, the
thing will topple.
And it's important to
understand, when one
has people with preexisting
conditions in
the insurance pool, there are
other things
that you have to do.
You have to make sure everybody
is in the
pool, so you spread that risk.
That is what insurance is.
It is about spreading risk.
And that's why there is a
mandate to have
everyone in.
And the other thing is, is, it
does increase
costs to have people who are
more expensive
in.
But what you want to do is make
sure that
you subsidize or help those.
And that is where the Affordable
Care Act's
subsidies or tax credits are
very, very important.
So, it is a situation where you
can't just
pick and choose the things you
like.
Everything has to work together
in order to
pay and have those with
preexisting conditions
be in and covered by insurance.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, are you
saying, Secretary
Burwell, it's literally
impossible to do what
Donald Trump says he wants to
do?
He said words to the effect,
people will have
other options.
He said, we're not going to
leave people -- quote
-- "dying in the streets."
Is there a way to do -- to
dismantle and still
take care of people?
®MDNM /MD-BO /SYLVIA MATHEWS
BURWELL: So,
Judy, I think it is now the
point in time
where this conversation about
health care
is going to move from the
rhetoric to the
reality.
And the reality of how you need
to put the
pieces together, but you really
have to focus
on what are the real facts of
how these pieces
interact.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Are there any
parts of this
plan that could be pulled out
and still keep
an important piece of what is
protecting Americans
and their health care?
®MDNM /MD-BO /SYLVIA MATHEWS
BURWELL: You
know, I think that's the
conversation that
we should have about the
question of how to
go forward.
Are there improvements that can
be made?
I think that's -- the question I
think we
need to be focused on, three
things, access,
how many insured or uninsured,
affordability,
what does it cost people, and
quality, what's
covered.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, as you know,
right now,
among Republicans on the Hill --
at least
it's reported that they are
talking about
a repeal vote, and then figuring
out what
to do next with replacement.
There's not complete agreement
on replacement.
How much difference does it make
it if they
go ahead and repeal, and then we
see how much
of a delay there is before we
know what succeeds?
®MDNM /MD-BO /(CROSSTALK)
SYLVIA MATHEWS BURWELL: Well,
the idea of
repeal and delayed replace is
really repeal
and collapse, because, once they
have taken
those actions to repeal and say,
oh, we will
replace it two, three years from
now, you
already start to have the
negative impact
that will occur.
And, by that, I mean insurance
companies,
because of the uncertainty, will
make decisions
to not go into the marketplace.
They will make decisions to
raise their prices
because of the uncertainty.
Hospitals across the country who
have been
benefiting from a reduction in
uncompensated
care, when people just go to the
hospital
and don't pay, because they
don't have insurance,
they're not going to be able to
make decisions.
States who have been getting the
funds for
Medicaid expansion will not know
in their
budgets whether they're going to
get the funds.
What will happen if there is a
repeal and
a delayed replacement is,
actually, collapse
will started to occur
immediately because
of the uncertainty.
And when you think that it's
been six years,
and there hasn't been an
agreed-upon replacement,
and so that will fuel this
uncertainty that
anything will really happen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what does
that mean in
human terms if it collapses?
®MDNM /MD-BO /SYLVIA MATHEWS
BURWELL: In
human terms, what it means is,
we know that
right now 20 million folks have
insurance
through the Affordable Care Act.
Last week, the Urban Institute
came out with
a study that said that approach
could result
in up to 30 million people
uninsured.
And why that is, is, because
this approach
wouldn't only take away what we
gained, but
would take us back further,
because it will
affect negatively the individual
market.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You're speaking
about what
will happen in the insurance
markets to hospitals,
decisions that they will make.
And yet we're already seeing in
this president-elect,
Donald Trump, he is somebody who
is not afraid
to go after individual
companies, individual
leaders in the private sector.
He has done it again today in
talking about
an aerospace company.
Who's to say he might not try to
personally
talk the hospital or insurance
industry into
doing something different?
®MDNM /MD-BO /SYLVIA MATHEWS
BURWELL: So,
I think this is one of those
situations where,
as I said, moving to the
substance.
And for the insurers and
providers to be able
to provide the kind of care and
insurance
they need to, there is a certain
level of
certainty that they need.
They need to know.
One of the most important things
in the marketplace
is the subsidies that occur to
help people
afford health care.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Even fans of the
accord Affordable
Care Act acknowledge there have
been issues
with it.
And, given that, as you look
back on how you,
how the administration has
handled it, are
there things that could have
been, should
have been done differently?
®MDNM /MD-BO /SYLVIA MATHEWS
BURWELL: The
president actually made a very
public pronouncement
through the -- a journal even,
in publishing
an article about things we think
could improve
the Affordable Care Act.
And there are a number of places
where we
believe there could be
improvements.
And they mainly focus on
affordability and
access and competition, having
competition
in the marketplace.
And some of the things we think
could help
and improve are changes in
things like high-cost
drugs and making sure that HHS
has the ability
to negotiate, to put downward
pressure, or
the idea of, in places where you
don't have
a lot of competition, in other
words, a number
of insurers offering, create a
public option
that would sit beside other
market options.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You have had some
-- a conversation
with the man who the
president-elect has chosen
to be the next secretary, or has
appointed
to be the next secretary of
health and human
services, Congressman Tom Price
from Georgia.
Any advice you would offer him?
®MDNM /MD-BO / SYLVIA MATHEWS
BURWELL:
You know, I think the only thing
I would say
-- and I would say this to
anyone coming into
HHS -- is, it is so important to
really focus
on those we serve.
That is who our boss really is.
It is the consumer.
And whether that's the child in
Head Start,
the person getting health care
or the person
who is going to benefit from NIH
research,
or any of us eating that food
that we trust
is safe because of the FDA,
keeping your eye
on what this department is about
for those
people, and how do we achieve
and serve the
best for them, that's the one
thing that I
think helps in this job, which
has lots of
different parts and pieces.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Secretary
®MDNM /MD-BO /Sylvia
Burwell, thank you.
®MDNM /MD-BO /SYLVIA MATHEWS
BURWELL: Thank
you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we will be
discussing the
future of Obamacare with leading
Republicans
in the coming weeks.
We take a broader look at the
latest twists
and turns in the Trump
transition now with
our Politics Monday team, Tamara
Keith of
NPR and Amy Walter of The Cook
Political Report.
And welcome to you both.
It's Monday.
It's good to see you.
So, Tamara, we have some, I
think, breaking
news.
We had expected Donald Trump
this week to
announce how he's going to
handle all of his
businesses.
And what have you learned?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: Yes,
all of the entanglements and
potential conflicts
of interest, he was supposed to
address that
in a news conference on
Thursday.
NPR's Domenico Montanaro has
confirmed that
that news conference is not
happening and
that now there will be an
announcement, not
necessarily a news conference,
sometime in
January.
So, for two weeks, Donald Trump
had the benefit
of people reporting that he was
going to have
a news conference to announce
his conflicts
of interest, and how he was
going to resolve
that.
And now that is postponed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Amy, I won't
ask you to
speculate about what is going
on, because
it has just broken.
But it does -- this is something
we have been
waiting to learn from Donald
Trump.
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Well,
and it is something that he is
asked continually.
He was just asked this weekend
in an interview
with FOX News' Chris Wallace
about how this
was going to work.
And he seemed to suggest that it
was going
to be pretty easy, that his
children will
run the business, he is going to
stay out
of it, but his children will do
it, and if
his children who are doing it,
then it means
he personally doesn't have a
vested interest
in the success.
Chris Wallace pushed him on
this, saying,
well, you know, if your children
do well,
that's -- for your business --
that is probably
helping you.
Didn't really clear up all of
the potential
controversies there.
And this comes on top of the
fact that you
have a number of members now
that Donald Trump
has offered up as Cabinet
appointments who
may have their own conflicts of
interest.
Those are going to be addressed
in hearings.
TAMARA KEITH: Well, and Donald
Trump in that
same interview talked about
wanting his daughter
Ivanka and his son-in-law Jared
Kushner to
be able to do work with the
administration.
But then also he wants them to
have some involvement
with the business still.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes.
Yes.
And so we now wait for at least,
what, three
more weeks before...
(CROSSTALK)
TAMARA KEITH: January.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We don't have a
date.
Well, the lead story tonight --
and, Amy,
I will turn to you on this -- is
this extraordinary
situation where we now have the
CIA saying
flat out that the Russians
interfered, tried
to influence the U.S. election.
Now, they're concluding that the
Russians
did it in order to help Donald
Trump.
The FBI isn't there yet.
But now you have a congressional
investigation
called for.
This is -- where are we?
AMY WALTER: It -- you know,
Judy, like, this
is the election that will never
end.
Right?
2016 will continue to go on and
on and on.
Look, where we are right now,
you have the
CIA -- again, this is a document
that was
leaked.
They haven't come out publicly,
made a public
statement about this, but was
leaked to The
Washington Post that they have
determined
that the Russians were involved
in, not just
hacking e-mails, but in trying
to ensure that
Donald Trump was elected.
Congressional leaders in the
House and the
Senate on the Republican side
taking a look
at this, basically, what they're
saying is,
they're not going as far as
Donald Trump is
saying, this is absolutely
ridiculous, I don't
believe this is possible.
They do say, this is something
we need to
look into, but what we're not
going to do
is set up a special
investigation.
It's going to go through normal
procedure.
We're not going to set up
something like a
9/11 Commission, something like
that to look
at this.
And so what you have is the
president being
much more direct in pushing
back, Republicans
saying it is worth looking at.
But they're also saying, we
don't want to
politicize this.
And we certainly don't want to
-- and I think
that it was Paul Ryan who said
specifically
that it shouldn't -- we should
make a clear
and decisive outcome.
We shouldn't cast doubt on a
clear and decisive
outcome of this election.
In other words, let's try to
look at this
without politicizing this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Tamara,
should that be
a question now?
Does this potentially undermine
the legitimacy
of Donald Trump's win here?
TAMARA KEITH: So, it depends on
how you talk
about undermining and
legitimacy.
The Obama administration is also
calling for
a broad review of the election
hacking and
hacking in past elections.
But the White House is saying
they don't believe
that there was Election Day vote
tampering.
They believe that the vote is --
the vote
is the vote.
Donald Trump will be sworn in on
January 20.
But I think that the way that
the Trump team
has reacted to this gets at the
legitimacy
question.
They have been, in some ways,
defensive, saying
that this is just -- this is
just the latest
in a long line of things, like
the recount
or people pointing to the
popular vote, as
a way of delegitimizing an
elected president-elect.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And saying the
Democrats are
somehow involved in this.
But it also -- it points back to
-- I mean,
Amy, you said there are now
several nominees.
There are going to be questions
about their
qualifications, their potential
conflicts
of interest.
But I do want to come back to
that news conference,
Amy, that -- or -- I'm sorry --
the interview
that Donald Trump did.
We're still waiting for a Donald
Trump news
conference, by the way.
AMY WALTER: Since July, we have
been waiting.
JUDY WOODRUFF: July.
But the interview that he did
with Chris Wallace
on FOX News, some interesting
comments there
about he doesn't believe in
taking regular
intelligence briefings, comments
about China.
We did learn a little bit more
about him from
that.
AMY WALTER: I think we did,
although, Judy,
my big takeaway from that
interview was the
Donald Trump that we saw on the
campaign trail
is the Donald Trump that we're
going to see
in the Oval Office.
He still believes fundamentally
that he doesn't
need to do things in the
traditional way:
Yes, there is a tradition for
doing security
briefings one way.
I'm going to do them a different
way.
Yes, people said to me, don't
take this phone
call from Taiwan.
I understand the one-China
policy, but I'm
also not going to let China
dictate to me
what I am going to do as
president of the
United States.
And so this posture, this
attitude that we
saw on the campaign trail is
absolutely going
to follow him right into the
Oval Office.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He really is
saying: I'm going
do it my own way.
AMY WALTER: Right.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
And if you look at many of his
domestic policy
Cabinet appointments, or
nominees, they are
people in his own image.
They are outsiders that are
executives, or
successful in business and
wealthy.
They are people who have said
that they oppose
the very work of the agencies
that they have
now been nominated to lead.
JUDY WOODRUFF: As so, we look at
this, Amy,
and we look at the -- just in
less than a
minute now -- the confirmation
process coming
up, there could be some
contentious...
AMY WALTER: There's going to be
some -- very
much fireworks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: ... discussions,
yes.
AMY WALTER: Yes.
We know that, because of the way
that the
rules are structured, it is
going to be difficult
for Democrats alone to get -- to
oust one
of his picks.
But all it takes is three or so
Republicans
to go against one of these
nominees, and they
will not be able to be
confirmed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And John McCain
and some of
the other senators have raised
some questions.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Republicans, I
mean.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
There are a handful of
Republicans.
Rand Paul has raised some
concerns with some
names that have floated.
The potential exists.
And even if none of them are
blocked, these
hearings are going to be
fascinating, and
they could -- they could raise a
lot of concerns
that could dog these nominees
once they go
into their Cabinet positions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hearings, hmm,
where have we
heard about those before in
Congress?
AMY WALTER: We are going to be
watching a
lot of them.
(CROSSTALK)
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy Walter,
Tamara Keith, thank
you both.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
AMY WALTER: You're welcome,
Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Nashville often
likes to refer
to itself as Music City.
And given its history and
heritage, that seems
just right.
But as real estate development
explodes in
one of the nation's fastest
growing cities,
some of the very studios,
locations and neighborhoods
that were so important to
country music, and
the industry as a whole, are now
threatened.
Jeffrey Brown reports.
It's part of his ongoing series
on Culture
at Risk.
JEFFREY BROWN: Inside an
unassuming house
on Nashville's 16th Avenue
South, guitarist
Philip Shouse is laying down a
track at the
recording studio House of David.
Meanwhile, just up the road, the
punk rock
group Paramore is recording
percussion in
RCA Studio A for the group's
forthcoming album.
It's just another day on Music
Row, the collection
of recording studios, publishing
houses and
offices two miles southwest of
downtown Nashville
and its famous honky-tonks, and
the place
collectively responsible for an
important
part of the nation's music
industry.
TAYLOR YORK, Paramore: From,
like, the early
days even to present, there's
been such an
amazing group of people that
have recorded
here, you know, and when you
walk into a room,
you really can feel an energy
and an inspiration.
JEFFREY BROWN: It all began in
the 1950s,
with
Owen and Harold Bradley,
brothers who opened
a recording studio in a
converted home in
this part of town.
Other studios, like Capitol,
Decca, and RCA
Victor followed, and in 1957,
RCA victor's
Nashville division, headed by
Chet Atkins,
opened Studio B, where Elvis
Presley would
record many of his most famous
hits.
A few years later, in 1963,
Studio A was built
next door.
And between the two, the likes
of Willie Nelson,
Waylon Jennings, Dolly Parton,
and many more
And between the two, the likes
of Willie Nelson,
Waylon Jennings, Dolly Parton,
and many more
recorded hit records.
With the studios came the
musicians, the publishers,
the lawyers and others, a
clustering that
created a music industry.
CAROLYN BRACKETT, National Trust
for Historic
Preservation: All of those are
still here.
And so you still have that sense
of community.
JEFFREY BROWN: Carolyn Brackett
is a Nashville
native with the National Trust
for Historic
Preservation.
CAROLYN BRACKETT: It's something
that we have
maybe taken for granted, because
you can walk
by these buildings or drive by a
lot of them
and not realize that this
incredible music
was made in that old house or in
this small
building.
And so a lot of the work that we
have done
in the last couple of years has
been to document
the history of Music Row all the
way up to
the present, what's happening
here today.
JEFFREY BROWN: What's happening
here today
is that this history is being
threatened by
the rising demand for housing
and office space
in what is one of the nation's
fastest growing
cities and hottest markets.
SHARON CORBITT-HOUSE, Partner,
All Good Factory:
There is a culture that we have
been very
fortunate to have on Music Row,
and it's been
squeezed
JEFFREY BROWN: Sharon
Corbitt-House, known
as Music Row Mama up and down
these streets,
has been managing talent and
producers at
RCA Studio A for years.
Two years ago, one of her
clients, Ben Folds,
learned the building was being
sold and that
he was being evicted.
Folds wrote an open letter to
Nashville's
community that went viral.
And at the 11th hour, as the
building was
about to be sold to a new
developer who would
tear it down, developer and
philanthropist
Aubrey Preston stepped in to
save it.
AUBREY PRESTON,
Developer/Philanthropist:
I believe in Music City.
It would be the equivalent of,
in Egypt, them
allowing one of their three
pyramids or something
to be torn down.
I believe it would just -- it's
just an impossibility
that this building would be torn
down.
JEFFREY BROWN: The new producer
in residence
at Studio A is Dave Cobb,
responsible for
albums from Jason Isbell and
Chris Stapleton,
who took home last year's Grammy
for best
country album, "Traveller,"
recorded at Studio
A.
DAVE COBB, Record Producer: Oh,
yes, you feel
the walls.
I mean, you kind of know what
was recorded
there, and when you're actually
in the space
and you realize that, you know,
that's where
Waylon Jennings recorded "Daddy
Walk the Line"
and that's where Dolly Parton
did "Jolene,"
and you're actually in the same
space, it
takes on a whole new, you know,
emotion.
And those records, I adore.
And I feel like, when I make
records, I chase
those sounds.
JEFFREY BROWN: This studio has
been saved,
but many others are gone.
Carolyn Brackett took us to a
new development
called Crescent Music Row, the
former site
of Sound Shop Studio, where Paul
McCartney
recorded with Wings in the
1970s.
CAROLYN BRACKETT: Most of them
are high-rises.
And what's happening as they
push further
into Music Row is that we're
losing a lot
of the historic buildings that
were studios,
were music offices, publishers
were located.
JEFFREY BROWN: Also compounding
the studios'
problems, the music business
isn't what it
used to be, and many recording
studios don't
earn what they used to because
of the rise
of more affordable software and
equipment.
DAVID BRIGGS, Owner, House of
David: I have
been offered, you know, a $1.7
million for
any building I have every week.
David Briggs is the owner of the
House of
David studios.
JEFFREY BROWN: And you say?
DAVID BRIGGS: No.
JEFFREY BROWN: Because?
DAVID BRIGGS: Because I want
these to stay.
The first thing they will do is
tear them
down and build -- especially if
you -- I have
three lots together.
They could build a pretty nice
skyscraper
here.
JEFFREY BROWN: Briggs himself is
a Nashville
institution, a session player,
producer and
music publisher who's worked
with Elvis and
a host of other stars.
DAVID BRIGGS: There used to be
80 studios
here within three or four
blocks.
Now I doubt if there's 20.
JEFFREY BROWN: The House of
David was just
added to the National Register
of Historic
Places, joining three other
studios on Music
Row.
They're among 200 buildings
documented by
the National Trust that are
connected to the
rise of country music, as well
as the music
industry as a whole.
The city's Metropolitan Planning
Commission
and stakeholders are now working
to finalize
a plan to recognize historic
buildings, with
backing from the National Park
Service.
SHARON CORBITT-HOUSE: I think
it's really
important that we're leaving it
better than
we found it.
We have got to make sure that
we're taking
care of the creative community,
people who
came here to be creatives, and
do it the way
we have always done it, which is
support one
another.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's a difficult
balancing
act between celebrating the past
and making
room for the future.
From Music Row in Nashville, I'm
Jeffrey Brown
for the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: And again to our
honor roll
of American service personnel
killed in Iraq
JUDY WOODRUFF: And again to our
honor roll
of American service personnel
killed in Iraq
and the Afghanistan conflict.
We add them as their deaths are
made official
and photographs become
available.
Here, in silence, is one more.
On the "NewsHour" online right
now: The weather
report calls for clouds and wind
on a planet
On the "NewsHour" online right
now: The weather
report calls for clouds and wind
on a planet
located 1,040 light years from
Earth.
That's according to the first
report with
persuasive evidence of weather
on a planet
outside our solar system.
Also on our Facebook page, you
think you have
what it takes to be on the front
lines for
the U.S. Marine Corps?
The Marines recently opened up
all combat
positions to female recruits.
But to qualify for these combat
jobs, all
recruits have to pass this test.
You can watch a video at
Facebook.com/NewsHour.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And tune in later tonight on
"Charlie Rose,"
former IBM CEO Sam Palmisano and
former Obama
White House National Security
Adviser Tom
Donilon, co-chairs of the
Presidential Commission
on Cybersecurity, discuss the
hacking of the
U.S. elections.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.